Welcome back.
So I just talked a lot about SSH and it sounds pretty interesting.
But how exactly do we use it?
Well it's actually quite simple.
We just run the SSH command with whatever user we want to reach at whichever host that is whichever
computer IP address we want to get to.
Let me show you what I mean by a little bit of a demonstration. Right over here
I went to Digital Ocean dot com and Digital Ocean is a provider that gives us servers for really really
cheap actually really really like them.
And if you're ever testing out stuff and you're looking for a good option to have a server somewhere
out in the cloud. Well Digital Ocean is great.
I went ahead and actually created something called droplets and that's what they call their version
of servers that you can purchase.
I selected Ubuntu which for those who don't know, it is an open source operating system that's built
on top of Linux.
Most servers out there in the world use Ubuntu so it's it's the standard.
I'm just going to get the cheapest option here for $5 a month just a little memory.
CPU you we're not going to be using it for anything too crazy so this is great.
I chose San Francisco as my region.
Actually I'm going to choose New York because it's closer to me.
So that's where the servers are going to be located.
And I'm just going to hit create, and once I hit create it will just give me a server that I can access.
So right here with a bit of a jibberish of a name that is my server, and you see over here how they give
me the IP address of my server while I can just copy this and I just go to my terminal I can now, using
the SSH command, access route which is the user that they give us by default and copy and paste the
IP address that they gave us.
Hit enter and look at that.
I am now in sight of that server.
Inside of that terminal and I can access anything I want.
So if I click "ls" I see here that I've created a hello directory.
I can also do another directory.
Let's just run a make directory and we'll call it "woohooo" because we're very excited.
So now if I go LS look at that I have a directory called Woohoo.
And I have full access to the server.
Very very cool.
And don't worry I'm going to show you how to actually set this up and how I got everything working.
And later on videos.
But for now let's just go back to this slide.
Now if you're using Linux or Mac then using SSH is very simple. If you use Windows,
you'll need to utilize an SSH client to open a SSH connections, and the most popular one for Windows
is called "putty" which I'll include in the resources for this lesson. Now by using SSH we can connect
to this remote computer and run commands on it just like I showed you.
Now how cool is that using SSH we can connect to any computer that allows for these SSH connections
anywhere in the world.
So let's review, the SSH key command and structure your system that you want to open an encrypted secure
shell connection. User represents the account you want to access.
For example you may want to access the root user which is basically synonymous for system administrator
with complete rights to modify anything on the system which can be dangerous at times.
Host refers to the computer you want to access.
This can be an IP address like the one we used or a domain name.
And once you hit enter, you're greeted with a remote terminal window just like we were in that example. OK.
So you're thinking to yourself, cool Andrei, but how does this apply to web development?
Well let me tell you a story and why I'm starting with this lesson in this course. On my very first day
as a full time developer,
I was asked to create an SSH key and connected to get help.
And guess what.
I had no idea how to do that.
I knew all about HTML, CSS, javascript and all that stuff, but nobody told me anything about using SSH
key for get home.
What was that?
You see I had no idea how to do it.
SSH is a very important concept that not many talk about but as a web developer you really need to
understand because, you will use SSH all the time in your career.
So some of these examples include, connecting to GitHub, clone, push, pull files from their servers to
your computer.
Remember how when we clone something from a GitHub we have two options we have use HTTPS which you've
most likely used before, and use SSH and remember how with HTTPS you had to enter your password all
the time to clone a repo?
You don't have to do that with SSH.
And there's a few other benefits that will go over later.
Second, you can remotely access another computer.
So if you're at home when you need to access your computer work, you can just SSH into it.
Finally probably the most important use case is you have your production app somewhere on a server, and
in the middle of the night you get a call. Hey we deleted your app by mistake.
Can you re-install it on the server?
Now this sounds ridiculous but it's actually something that has happened to me.
I had to SSH into the server get the project files to the server again and go through all the steps
of running NPM install, NPM build, NPM start, to get the app back up and running.
So with the rest of the videos I'm going to show you how to master SSH never have to experience what
I did on my first day of the job.
You'll learn how encryption works how to use SSH to solve the above problems, and also how to set up
a server to allow for SSH connections.
It is a skill that is so important.
I wanted to be the first part of the course.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
So I'll see on the next video. Buh-Bye.